README.md, before:

# Minecraft Instance Manager

A modern, lightweight Minecraft instance manager with a beautiful terminal interface. Uses symlinks to instantly switch between different Minecraft setups without copying files.

## ✨ Features

- **⚡ Instant switching** - Uses symlinks, no file copying required
- **💾 Space efficient** - No duplicate files, shared assets
- **🔒 Safe backups** - Automatic backup before switching
- **📊 Rich information** - Shows mods, configs, saves count for each instance
- **🎨 Beautiful TUI** - Interactive terminal interface with Bubble Tea
- **🧹 Modern design** - Written in Go with Cobra CLI framework
- **🔄 Easy restore** - One command to restore original setup
- **🌐 Cross-platform** - Works on Linux, macOS, and Windows

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

#### Download Pre-built Binary
Download the latest release for your platform from the [releases page](https://github.com/Gerry3010/minecraft-instance-switcher/releases).

#### Install with Go
```bash
go install github.com/Gerry3010/minecraft-instance-switcher/cmd/minecraft-instance-manager@latest
```

#### Build from Source
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Gerry3010/minecraft-instance-switcher.git
cd minecraft-instance-switcher
go build -o minecraft-instance-manager ./cmd/minecraft-instance-manager
```

### Usage

#### Interactive TUI Mode (Default)
```bash
# Launch the beautiful terminal interface
minecraft-instance-manager
```

#### Command Line Mode
```bash
# Create instances
minecraft-instance-manager create vanilla           # Clean Minecraft
minecraft-instance-manager create modpack-1.20.1    # Your modpack
minecraft-instance-manager create testing           # Testing environment

# Switch between instances
minecraft-instance-manager switch modpack-1.20.1   # Switch to modpack
minecraft-instance-manager switch vanilla           # Switch to vanilla

# List all instances with details
minecraft-instance-manager list

# Delete an instance
minecraft-instance-manager delete old-instance

# Restore original .minecraft
minecraft-instance-manager restore
```

## 🎨 TUI Features

The interactive terminal interface provides:

- **🎨 Beautiful Interface** - Clean, modern terminal UI with colors and styling
- **⌨️ Keyboard Navigation** - Full keyboard control with intuitive shortcuts
- **📋 Instance List** - See all instances with mod/config/save counts at a glance
- **🔍 Instance Details** - View detailed information about any instance
- **⚡ Quick Switching** - Switch instances with just Enter key
- **➕ Create/Delete** - Create new instances or delete existing ones
- **🎆 Real-time Updates** - Interface updates instantly when changes are made

### TUI Keyboard Shortcuts

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `↑/↓` or `j/k` | Navigate up/down |
| `Enter` | Switch to instance or view details |
| `c` | Create new instance |
| `d` | Delete selected instance |
| `s` | Show detailed file panels (in detail view) |
| `Tab/Shift+Tab` | Switch between panels (in panel view) |
| `F5` | Refresh instance list |
| `r` | Restore default .minecraft |
| `?` | Toggle help |
| `ESC` | Go back / Cancel |
| `q` or `Ctrl+C` | Quit |

## 📋 CLI Commands

| Command | Description | Example |
|---------|-------------|---------|
| `create <name>` | Create a new instance | `minecraft-instance-manager create forge-1.20.1` |
| `switch <name>` | Switch to an instance | `minecraft-instance-manager switch vanilla` |
| `list` | List all instances with details | `minecraft-instance-manager list` |
| `delete <name>` | Delete an instance | `minecraft-instance-manager delete old-instance` |
| `restore` | Restore original .minecraft directory | `minecraft-instance-manager restore` |

## 📁 How It Works

### Directory Structure

```
~/.minecraft-instances/
├── vanilla/
│   ├── mods/           (empty)
│   ├── config/
│   ├── saves/
│   └── ...
├── modpack-1.20.1/
│   ├── mods/           (108 mods)
│   ├── config/
│   ├── saves/
│   └── ...
└── testing/
    ├── mods/           (1 mod)
    ├── config/
    ├── saves/
    └── ...
```

### Symlink Magic

When you switch instances:
1. Current `~/.minecraft` is backed up to `~/.minecraft.backup`
2. A symlink `~/.minecraft -> ~/.minecraft-instances/chosen-instance` is created
3. Minecraft launcher uses the instance transparently

## 🎯 Use Cases

### Mod Development
```bash
./minecraft-instances create dev-environment
# Add your mod to ~/.minecraft-instances/dev-environment/mods/
./minecraft-instances switch dev-environment
```

### Different Minecraft Versions
```bash
./minecraft-instances create mc-1.19.4
./minecraft-instances create mc-1.20.1
./minecraft-instances create mc-1.21
```

### Modpack Testing
```bash
./minecraft-instances create modpack-backup
./minecraft-instances create modpack-experimental
# Test changes in experimental, keep backup safe
```

## 🛡️ Safety Features

- **Automatic backups** - Your original .minecraft is always backed up
- **Safe switching** - Validates instance exists before switching
- **Easy restore** - One command restores original setup
- **Non-destructive** - Never deletes your original data

## 🔧 Advanced Usage

### Adding Mods to an Instance
```bash
# Add mods directly to the instance
cp my-mod.jar ~/.minecraft-instances/my-instance/mods/

# Or switch to instance and use normal mod installation
minecraft-instance-manager switch my-instance
# Now use your launcher's mod management or copy mods to ~/.minecraft/mods/
```

### Sharing Instances
```bash
# Backup an instance
tar -czf my-modpack.tar.gz ~/.minecraft-instances/my-modpack/

# Restore on another machine
tar -xzf my-modpack.tar.gz -C ~/
```

## 📊 Instance Information

The `list` command shows detailed information:

```
Available instances:
  - vanilla               (0 mods)
  - sebi-1.20.1          (107 mods)
  - vanillaplus-test      (1 mods)

Current instance: sebi-1.20.1
```

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Instance doesn't appear in list
- Check that `~/.minecraft-instances/instance-name` exists
- Ensure the directory has proper permissions

### Minecraft won't launch
- Verify the instance has all required files (copied during creation)
- Check Minecraft version compatibility
- Use `minecraft-instance-manager restore` to return to original setup

### Lost original .minecraft
- Your original is backed up at `~/.minecraft.backup`
- Run `minecraft-instance-manager restore` to recover it

## 🤝 Contributing

This script is simple and focused. Contributions welcome for:
- Bug fixes
- Small enhancements
- Documentation improvements
- Platform compatibility

## 📜 License

MIT License - Feel free to use, modify, and share!

## 🙏 Credits

Originally created for VanillaPlusAdditions mod development workflow.

---

**Happy mining!** ⛏️✨

Commit message:

Add AI Collaboration Notice to README
🤖 Added transparency notice about human-AI collaboration in development.
This follows the same approach as VanillaPlusAdditions - being open about
AI assistance while highlighting that creativity and direction come from humans.

The notice explains:
- Project developed with Warp AI (Claude 3.5 Sonnet) assistance
- AI helped with implementation, documentation, and structure
- Human creativity provided core ideas and direction
- Celebrates the potential of human-AI collaboration

Transparency in AI usage builds trust and shows responsible development! ✨

README.md, after:

# Minecraft Instance Manager

A modern, lightweight Minecraft instance manager with a beautiful terminal interface. Uses symlinks to instantly switch between different Minecraft setups without copying files.

> 🤖 **AI Collaboration Notice**: This project was developed in collaboration with the Warp AI assistant (powered by Claude 3.5 Sonnet). The AI helped with code implementation, documentation, and project structure. While the core ideas and direction came from human creativity, the AI's assistance made this project more robust and feature-complete. We believe in transparency about AI usage while celebrating the potential of human-AI collaboration in software development.

## ✨ Features

- **⚡ Instant switching** - Uses symlinks, no file copying required
- **💾 Space efficient** - No duplicate files, shared assets
- **🔒 Safe backups** - Automatic backup before switching
- **📊 Rich information** - Shows mods, configs, saves count for each instance
- **🎨 Beautiful TUI** - Interactive terminal interface with Bubble Tea
- **🧹 Modern design** - Written in Go with Cobra CLI framework
- **🔄 Easy restore** - One command to restore original setup
- **🌐 Cross-platform** - Works on Linux, macOS, and Windows

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

#### Download Pre-built Binary
Download the latest release for your platform from the [releases page](https://github.com/Gerry3010/minecraft-instance-switcher/releases).

#### Install with Go
```bash
go install github.com/Gerry3010/minecraft-instance-switcher/cmd/minecraft-instance-manager@latest
```

#### Build from Source
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Gerry3010/minecraft-instance-switcher.git
cd minecraft-instance-switcher
go build -o minecraft-instance-manager ./cmd/minecraft-instance-manager
```

### Usage

#### Interactive TUI Mode (Default)
```bash
# Launch the beautiful terminal interface
minecraft-instance-manager
```

#### Command Line Mode
```bash
# Create instances
minecraft-instance-manager create vanilla           # Clean Minecraft
minecraft-instance-manager create modpack-1.20.1    # Your modpack
minecraft-instance-manager create testing           # Testing environment

# Switch between instances
minecraft-instance-manager switch modpack-1.20.1   # Switch to modpack
minecraft-instance-manager switch vanilla           # Switch to vanilla

# List all instances with details
minecraft-instance-manager list

# Delete an instance
minecraft-instance-manager delete old-instance

# Restore original .minecraft
minecraft-instance-manager restore
```

## 🎨 TUI Features

The interactive terminal interface provides:

- **🎨 Beautiful Interface** - Clean, modern terminal UI with colors and styling
- **⌨️ Keyboard Navigation** - Full keyboard control with intuitive shortcuts
- **📋 Instance List** - See all instances with mod/config/save counts at a glance
- **🔍 Instance Details** - View detailed information about any instance
- **⚡ Quick Switching** - Switch instances with just Enter key
- **➕ Create/Delete** - Create new instances or delete existing ones
- **🎆 Real-time Updates** - Interface updates instantly when changes are made

### TUI Keyboard Shortcuts

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `↑/↓` or `j/k` | Navigate up/down |
| `Enter` | Switch to instance or view details |
| `c` | Create new instance |
| `d` | Delete selected instance |
| `s` | Show detailed file panels (in detail view) |
| `Tab/Shift+Tab` | Switch between panels (in panel view) |
| `F5` | Refresh instance list |
| `r` | Restore default .minecraft |
| `?` | Toggle help |
| `ESC` | Go back / Cancel |
| `q` or `Ctrl+C` | Quit |

## 📋 CLI Commands

| Command | Description | Example |
|---------|-------------|---------|
| `create <name>` | Create a new instance | `minecraft-instance-manager create forge-1.20.1` |
| `switch <name>` | Switch to an instance | `minecraft-instance-manager switch vanilla` |
| `list` | List all instances with details | `minecraft-instance-manager list` |
| `delete <name>` | Delete an instance | `minecraft-instance-manager delete old-instance` |
| `restore` | Restore original .minecraft directory | `minecraft-instance-manager restore` |

## 📁 How It Works

### Directory Structure

```
~/.minecraft-instances/
├── vanilla/
│   ├── mods/           (empty)
│   ├── config/
│   ├── saves/
│   └── ...
├── modpack-1.20.1/
│   ├── mods/           (108 mods)
│   ├── config/
│   ├── saves/
│   └── ...
└── testing/
    ├── mods/           (1 mod)
    ├── config/
    ├── saves/
    └── ...
```

### Symlink Magic

When you switch instances:
1. Current `~/.minecraft` is backed up to `~/.minecraft.backup`
2. A symlink `~/.minecraft -> ~/.minecraft-instances/chosen-instance` is created
3. Minecraft launcher uses the instance transparently

## 🎯 Use Cases

### Mod Development
```bash
./minecraft-instances create dev-environment
# Add your mod to ~/.minecraft-instances/dev-environment/mods/
./minecraft-instances switch dev-environment
```

### Different Minecraft Versions
```bash
./minecraft-instances create mc-1.19.4
./minecraft-instances create mc-1.20.1
./minecraft-instances create mc-1.21
```

### Modpack Testing
```bash
./minecraft-instances create modpack-backup
./minecraft-instances create modpack-experimental
# Test changes in experimental, keep backup safe
```

## 🛡️ Safety Features

- **Automatic backups** - Your original .minecraft is always backed up
- **Safe switching** - Validates instance exists before switching
- **Easy restore** - One command restores original setup
- **Non-destructive** - Never deletes your original data

## 🔧 Advanced Usage

### Adding Mods to an Instance
```bash
# Add mods directly to the instance
cp my-mod.jar ~/.minecraft-instances/my-instance/mods/

# Or switch to instance and use normal mod installation
minecraft-instance-manager switch my-instance
# Now use your launcher's mod management or copy mods to ~/.minecraft/mods/
```

### Sharing Instances
```bash
# Backup an instance
tar -czf my-modpack.tar.gz ~/.minecraft-instances/my-modpack/

# Restore on another machine
tar -xzf my-modpack.tar.gz -C ~/
```

## 📊 Instance Information

The `list` command shows detailed information:

```
Available instances:
  - vanilla               (0 mods)
  - sebi-1.20.1          (107 mods)
  - vanillaplus-test      (1 mods)

Current instance: sebi-1.20.1
```

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Instance doesn't appear in list
- Check that `~/.minecraft-instances/instance-name` exists
- Ensure the directory has proper permissions

### Minecraft won't launch
- Verify the instance has all required files (copied during creation)
- Check Minecraft version compatibility
- Use `minecraft-instance-manager restore` to return to original setup

### Lost original .minecraft
- Your original is backed up at `~/.minecraft.backup`
- Run `minecraft-instance-manager restore` to recover it

## 🤝 Contributing

This script is simple and focused. Contributions welcome for:
- Bug fixes
- Small enhancements
- Documentation improvements
- Platform compatibility

## 📜 License

MIT License - Feel free to use, modify, and share!

## 🙏 Credits

Originally created for VanillaPlusAdditions mod development workflow.

---

**Happy mining!** ⛏️✨
